---
title: "Declarative GitOps with Argo"
date: "2024-02-26"
author: Jonathon Zudell
---
They following is a guide on how to achieve declarative gitops with Argo. It will broadly break down into two steps. Configuring the ArgoCD Installation and configuring the ArgoCD Application to self reference

## Configure ArgoCD Installation
ArgoCD manages collections of kubernetes resources by way of helm or kustomize. Since ArgoCD is itself a collection of kubernetes resources ArgoCD can manage it's own deployment. An example repository can be found here [fugue-state-io/helm-charts](https://github.com/fugue-state-io/helm-charts). In order for ArgoCD to manage itself we must initially bootstrap Argo into our cluster. In order to bootstrap argo with `helm` one must add the argo helm chart repo then install the argo-cd helm chart. An appropriate `values.yaml` will need to be created following this guide [argo/argo-cd](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-helm/tree/main/charts/argo-cd)

```
helm repo add argo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
helm install -f values.yaml argo-cd argo/argo-cd
```
## Configure ArgoCD Application to self reference
Since an Argo application continuously delivers a collection of kubernetes and Argo itself is a collection of kubernetes resources ArgoCD can host itself and pick up any changes to configuration in git and automatically apply them. To achieve this two resources must be made, an argo project and an argo application.

```
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: argo-cd
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  destination:
    namespace: argocd
    server: "https://kubernetes.default.svc"
  project: fugue-state
  sources:
  - repoURL: 'https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm'
    chart: argo-cd
    targetRevision:  5.51.2
    helm:
      valueFiles:
      - $values/argo-cd/values.yaml
  - repoURL: 'https://github.com/fugue-state-io/helm-charts'
    ref: values
    targetRevision: develop
  syncPolicy:
    automated:
      prune: true
      selfHeal: true
---
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: AppProject
metadata:
  name: fugue-state
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  sourceRepos:
  - '*'
  destinations:
  - namespace: '*'
    server: '*'
  clusterResourceWhitelist:
  - group: '*'
    kind: '*'
```

## Declarative GitOps
The above configuration will enable you to manage ArgoCD configuration in a git repo with gitops. The ArgoCD Application will monitor the specified git repository and reconcile any changes. In the end you will have.
- A helm chart git repository.
- ArgoCD installed in the kubernetes cluster of choice.
- An ArgoCD pipeline to install any changes to the helm-chart git repository.